---
layout: post
title: Chapter One - Stillness
permalink: /ch1
---

(first draft, lightly edited)

---

*Can you feel it too?*

Heavy footfalls of armored boots resound in endless metal halls.

*How can you not?*

Murmurs as armed soldiers pass by one by one, worried expressions looking on as these hunters prowl their hallways.

*You must. The rage. It can't even be called pure hate.*

Quieted voices relaying orders in strict form, mustering their forces.

*It's far from pure. It's a slurry of muck and filth and pus.*

Horrific scenes of half charred corpses and a figure draped in ragged furs and hides, face obscured by a hood and tattered scarf.

*Oh, does it surge and swell in its fury, how fierce it shakes existence around it.*

Whispers shared amongst one another as commands are uttered.

*But just as it roars, howls, raves, it too grows quiet.*

*It mourns. It weeps so quietly that it's nearly impossible to hear under its ravings.*

*Can you feel it? You must be able to.*

---

These damned pockets. Of all the clothes I own, these have to have the most pockets. Eventually my fingertips found what I thought I didn't have---a small crystal vial I had taken with me when I boarded my ship. "Thank the Gods," I muttered to myself before uncorking it and downing it in the same go. I'd been on a diplomatic mission no more than a half hour ago, but a squad of armed humans put a stop to that. Now I had been put in this bleak, tiny room with nothing but a table and some chairs. I breathed a sigh of relief as the vial's contents began circulating through my bloodstream.

I checked whether my hands had stopped shaking yet and snuck a small glance towards the soldier positioned at the door. I wasn't sure if he was there for my sake, or for the human's sake. He looked like he had something to say, so I spat out a few words in Common. "Speak, whatever it is that's bothering you." He straightened himself a bit before he did. "Miss Y'la, I know you must be uncomfortable on a human ship, being a fey-folk, but illicit substances are prohibited on military vessels." He eventually said, eyes forward. 

I slammed my hand onto the table in front of me, glaring daggers at him. "Illicit substance, my ass! First you pull me off my ship, saying I'm needed for some sort of 'critical emergency', then stuff me in this room and tell me what is and isn't prohibited? Do you know what *is* prohibited? Kidnapping, that's what!" I slammed the table again, purely out of anger. 

I took a deep breath before continuing. "And not just that, you let some... some *death troopers* onto the ship not long after accosting me, and then you do an FTL jump and park us over whatever the hell that is down there!" I said, aiming a finger towards the blemishless floor. I could feel the blood and heat rushing to my face, something I'd rarely do, but I was beginning to fear for my own safety on all fronts.

Once the nausea from traveling faster than light subsided, I was immediately washed over by what I could only call the most impure, furious emotions I had ever felt from any living being. It took all of my willpower to not lose complete control of my faculties and I was sandwiched between whoever was responsible for those emotions and the ever-present tension of human warriors. I was *not* having any of this, not from some rank-and-file soldier. "You need to tell me what is going on." I snarled. The soldier simply kept his eyes forward. "Sorry, I'm not authorized to---" 

This time instead of my anger interrupting him, it was the hiss of the metal door opening to his side. "Sorry for the delay in explanation, Miss Fodran. You can go." A man I recognized as the captain of this ship said as he entered. He moved aside and a seasoned looking man in officer's attire entered the room as well. I had to suppress snorting at him, covered in pointless medals and accolades. "You better tell me what in the realms you're doing, abducting a diplomat. Do you want to hear from the Empire about this?" 

The officer simply sat down across from me. "In fact, the Empire---Adenian Empire, right?---was the one who gave us information on your location so that we could intercept you. The Grand Duchess was very insistent on your involvement." I only noticed that he had walked into the room holding a packet of papers and an ashtray in one hand, which he set down on the table. "I have no idea how she knew about the situation we're in. We only became aware of it within the last hour or so. Part of why you've been stuck here. Even with fast-tracking, authorization to discuss these matters with someone outside of the Center doesn't happen very quickly." He reached into his pocket and retrieved a cigar and lit it. 

"Center?" I cautiously asked. Human government had so many faces and facets that few diplomats bothered learning about them. In a single year so much could change that you'd wonder if it was the same government. The officer puffed a few times on the cigar, which I found utterly repulsive. "Yeah. Arguably the least shitty place to work, considering it's mostly run by synthetic intelligences. 'Center for the Advancement of Humanity', we just call it the Center. We keep humanity from imploding or becoming stagnant. Anyways," He tapped the packet of papers on the table. "You certainly live up to the recommendation by the Duchess. Lots of disputes settled between races spacefaring or not, even some human. Well, you have your humans too, but they're a bit tamer than ours." He said, handing the captain a small rectangular device. "Mind setting that up? Burn after reading mode, you know how it is with Wolfhound." The captain took it and used a very thin piece of metal to poke and prod the object. He then walked over to the wall, tapped it twice and a black rectangle appeared. Shortly after, a panel slid open on the wall, which he plugged the rectangle into. 

Curious as I was to what the captain was doing, I narrowed my eyes at the officer across from me. He seemed to be talking as if he wasn't human. "Your humans? Would you be one of those 'intelligences' you just spoke of?" I probed. A few hundred years ago, a bizarre occurrence happened. We met humans from what we could only imagine to be from another universe. One without magic or races like mine with fey blood or the like. It was a miracle they could even travel between the stars as we could.

"Mn." He simply grunted as he flipped through the packet of papers quickly. "We were made by them, but we kind of look at them like kid siblings nowadays." He said while continuing to read. 

I felt an annoyed sigh escaping me. "Still, I don't appreciate being taken against my will to deal with whatever chaos you have going on down there, even if the royal family actually suggested it. Any Syvari with some numbing nectar would be able to handle it, what with you and your metal soldiers."

This elicited a laugh from the officer. "Oh, my name's Tanner by the way. And no, they wouldn't." He peered closer at the report he had in his hands. "The other one we brought with us just in case is currently as sedated as possible without putting him into a coma because he wouldn't calm the hell down the minute we left FTL. You're not taking numbing nectar. The opposite, actually. And surprisingly, you haven't lost it."

Damn it, there goes any out I had. I just wanted to get off this ship and back home to my husband and children.

"So, what's it like? I heard that fey-folk and elvenkind can to a degree feel others' emotions. What's it like down there?" Tanner looked over his papers with a curious look. His gaze felt strange. Normally meeting eyes with someone else allowed me to get a general feel of their emotions, but I couldn't read anything from him.

I narrowed my focus away from the room I was in, I blocked out even the smallest feelings of unease and worry that seemed to permeate the ship's lifeless metal halls. It was like the planet was stained, roiling and enraged. But it had some brief moments of calm, deep sorrow. "How close are we to the planet?" I asked. 

The captain spoke up. "We're about 450 kilometers from the surface." I felt my throat tighten up. There had been situations where an emotional link could be felt across continents, or even on the opposite side of the world, but not *that* far. "I should not be able to sense any emotions that far." What the hell happened down there? "Can I have an explanation now?" I managed to choke out after the realization that I was becoming part of something that might end up being the single most important diplomatic mission of my career.

Tanner lost interest in the packet of papers and placed it on the table. "Sure, after I hear what it's like."

How could I possibly explain it? How could I *really* describe the emotions churning in on themselves so far below the ship I was in? I went with the first thing I could think of. "Dirty." Tanner leaned back in his chair, stroking his chin in thought. "Interesting. Alright, then. About an hour and a half ago, we received an emergency message from one of our colonies. The person who sent this message was part of our military that we tend to not keep information about. We'd had normal communications with the colony he was on up until this message that we received today, six years later. You can play it now, Captain." The captain tapped on the black wall and a recording began playing. 

All that could be told about the person in the video was that he was wearing rough hides and his face was mostly obscured by his hood and a tattered blue scarf. His clothing looked far too primitive for someone who was part of a spacefaring race. 

*"Be quiet until I finish."*  He said to seemingly no one in a raspy and strained voice. It sounded as if he hadn't spoken to anyone in years. He sat at a desk with a gun and a hunting knife on it, which he took meticulous care in lining up before he began speaking. *"Adam Reece reporting. Authorization code SH-36CIPZ5K9W.  An organization has infiltrated the Center's colonization project and is using our colonies as playgrounds for their sick desires. On the founding anniversary, a bio-engineered virus was released that targeted and killed at least half the population. Outside communication was controlled by a synthetic intelligence taken hostage until now. Wolfhound casualties are as such: Marianne Reece, Connor Reece, Andrew Thompson,  Mia Thompson..."*

Adam's shoulders shook as he took a moment to compose himself. *"...And Emily Thompson. Having failed my primary objective, newly-found secondary objective, and with no chain of command, I took the liberty of changing my objective to that of avenging their deaths. I have done so by hunting down and inflicting the same pain they inflicted on us."* He reached forward with a scarred hand and moved the camera to the left. I felt the embracing nectar start to churn in my stomach. Two of the three were dead, and the third looked hardly better. Two were burned from head to toe and covered in multiple knife wounds, ranging from slashes to stabs, the flaying of skin, and near surgical cuts. The third was gagged and burned from the waist down and was struggling with all his might to escape. I covered my mouth with my hand in shock at what I was seeing.

Adam's hand briefly covered the camera and moved it back to himself. *"That's the governor, a mid-level member of a group called 'The Connoiseurs'. He chooses low-level members to accompany him on a colonization project. They then isolate the colony and act out their wildest, vilest dreams, but they have to submit evidence of what they've done to the higher-level member governing the colony. This acts as blackmail, collateral, and assurances. It's how they maintain structure in their group. These lower-level members range from civilians to doctors, private security, all walks of life with all kinds of 'tastes'. The minutia of their hierarchies is in the evidence the SI has. I may have missed some of them and they've mingled into the regular populace, so don't come unprepared."* Adam stopped speaking and all that could be heard was the grunting and struggling of the governor off-screen.

Adam went silent for a few minutes, which I could only call chilling. After some time of sitting still, he picked up the hunting knife, stood up, and walked off screen. Shortly after, loud, yet still muffled screams rang out. I winced at the sound that seemed to go on forever, guttural and afraid. But it didn't last forever, and I think that was what unsettled me the most. Once the governor had finally gone silent, Adam walked back on screen and stabbed the bloodied knife into the table, causing me to jump in my seat. 

Adam was quiet for a few more moments. *"This concludes my report. I've completed my duties to the best of my abilities, so I will now be resigning."*  He picked up the revolver and checked the chamber. I wanted to reach out and shake him, tell him not to do what I was afraid of, but I knew this was just a recording. He put the barrel to his head.

Click.

There was no bang.

My breath was trapped in my throat. Adam held the gun still to his head for a moment before lowering it and checking the chamber. He moved the chamber back a notch and placed it back to his temple. I felt frozen.

Click. 

There was still no bang.

This time he opened the chamber, removed the bullet and inspected it incredulously, before breaking into a fit of laughter. The laughter went on for a long while I felt myself shuddering involuntarily. Eventually, Adam's laughter stopped as he spoke in a resigned tone.

*"I guess I have to live, then."*