---
layout: post
title: Chapter One - Stillness
permalink: /ch1
---

(first draft, very lightly edited)

---

*Can you feel it too?*

Heavy footfalls of armored boots resound in endless, metal halls.

*How can you not?*

Murmurs as armed soldiers pass by one by one, worried expressions as these hunters prowl their hallways.

*You must. The rage. What can't even be called pure hate.*

Quieted voices relaying orders in strict form, mustering their forces.

*It's far from pure. It's a slurry of muck and filth and pus.*

Horrific scenes of half charred corpses and a figure draped in ragged furs and hides, face obscured by hood and tattered scarf.

*Oh, does it surge and swell in its fury, how fierce it shakes existence around it.*

Whispers shared amongst one another as commands are uttered.

*But just as it roars, howls, raves, it too grows quiet.*

*It mourns. It weeps so quietly that it's nearly impossible to hear under its ravings.*

*Can you feel it? You must be able to.*

---

A pale woman dressed in a dignitary's robe fumbled around in her pockets. "Oh, thank the Gods," She mumbled to herself as found what she was looking for. A crystalline vial gleamed in the artificial lights for a brief moment before she gulped down its contents. Her shaking hands put away the vial before wiping the sweat from her forehead.  She sighed, as if being granted a moment of relief. 

The soldier that was standing at the door of the room looked somewhat uneasy as he spoke up. "Miss Y'la, there are no illicit substances permitted on military vessels. I know you're one of those fey-folk and might be uncomfortable on a human sh-" He was cut off immediately by the bang of her hand on the nearby table.

"Illicit substance my ass! First you humans yank me off my ship, citing a critical emergency that my assistance is required for, then stuff me into this barren instrument of destruction, with little to no explanation all while allowing some... some group of *death troopers* onto the ship! I am Y'la Foldran, the elected diplomatic liason of the Sycari people!" She began punctuating her words with more slams on the table. "Then you park this ship over whatever the hell *that* is on the planet!"  Y'la aims her finger towards the ground, her iridescent skin having turned from pale blue to a flush red.

"I'm sorry, Miss, I just am not authorized to-" He was again cut off again as the door to the room hissed open. The captain of the ship along with another high ranking officer entered the room. "Sorry for the delay in explanation. What's going on is above my pay grade and trust me,  I don't want to be in this situation either." The captain stated as the other officer entered ahead of him and sat down while the captain remained standing. 

"You know how it is dealing with politicians, Miss Foldran. I'll get down to it now that I've been given authorization." The officer, like the captain and virtually all of the human warriors had rough appearances and seemed as if they were chiseled from stone. If it weren't for the tincture she had just taken to dull her senses, she'd hardly raise her voice to them.

"You better. Why in the realms did you need to drag me,  out of all empaths you could've on my ship?" She asked. The officer reached into his jacket and retrieved a cigar before lighting it. "Because you're the best of them and we need you to mediate a tricky situation." A plume of smoke trailed out of his mouth as he spoke. 

Y'la groaned as she slumped backwards into her chair. "Bullshit, as you humans say. With enough numbing nectar, any other Sycari would be able to mediate whatever is wrong on that planet. Or you could've grabbed any of the other Appeared races instead of me to 'mediate' the situation alongside all your metal soldiers and guns." She said with a sneer. "Isn't that what you call us? If it isn't 'fey-folk', or whatever other nonsense from your bizarre stories, you call us 'Appeared' . Aren't you all the one who just showed up and declared yourself galactic leaders?" This, to her, was  unlawful and ridiculous and it was evident in her voice. 

This time the captain spoke up. "Lets put aside any tension there may be between us and the other Appeared races. We've been to the very ends of space, following its expansion with science ships, manned military and diplomatic vessels. There's no way that we'd overlook uncountable habitable solar systems, or accidentally miss hundreds of different species as advanced as us or otherwise. You all just... suddenly appeared in our universe, in places we'd already mapped and we still don't know how that happened. But that has nothing to do with this." The captain looked worried almost, despite his warrior-like appearance. He sounded pleading to Y'la, like a father asking for the safety of his son. "We're simply asking you a favor and we will offer proper recompense for your help."

Y'la felt a slight kinship with the captain as she wanted to head home as soon as she could to her own family, but nothing towards the man releasing foul smoke into the room. "Can you put that out before we continue our talk?" Wordlessly, the officer did as she asked, putting out the cigar unceremoniously on the bare table. "I'm Major General Tanner and I stand by what I said, that you're the best out of them. On record you've solved more disputes than the others on your council and the reason we wanted you is strictly because what you're taking isn't what your people call 'numbing nectar', but rather 'embracing nectar'. We brought one other Sycari with us and they became hysteric even before we hit orbit, with numbing nectar." He leaned forward. "Yet you're embracing it. What's it like?"

For the first time since she got to this lifeless room in a death-trap of a machine, Y'la was surprised. "I thought I was putting on a good act. Oh well." The general gave her a wry smile, as if he was used to it.

"I can't make anything clear out from this distance, which in the first place is insane that I can feel anything at all. The number of instances where someone could feel their partner's link from a continent away is single digit, most likely." She paused for a second  continuing. "It's like the whole planet is covered in chaos. If one person's emotions are responsible for what I'm feeling from this distance, then their emotions would be enough to swallow a world." Y'la said in a dire tone.

The general leaned back to a proper sitting position. "Interesting." He then handed a small rectangle like device to the captain, who then tapped the wall. A panel on the wall slid open, revealing a screen that he plugged the device into. Y'la looked at it with slight curiosity. "Is that one of your human tomes?" She asked. The captain gave a slight chuckle. "Well, it's something like a tome. It's a universal data drive that has the call our man on the planet made. We pulled it from colony emergency center's black box. We're going to show you it and why we have those 'death troopers' with us as you called them. We don't know if he's lost it or we have a very serious situation to consider."

Y'la was slightly annoyed by the fact they seemed to know more about her than they should've, as well as what she'd said before they entered the room. Glancing around there weren't any visible cameras. *Perhaps they enlisted a scrier? They did mention another Sycari...* Before she could ruminate on the matter longer, the screen started playing a recording. All that could be told about the person in the video was that he was wearing roughly made hides and his face was mostly obscured by a tattered blue scarf. He looked like he was living in the stone age rather than someone who was a settler on a colony separated light-years from his birth planet. 

*"Be quiet until I finish."*  He said, to seemingly no one in a raspy and strained voice. It sounded as if he hadn't spoken to anyone in years, or that he had a throat injury. He sat at a desk with a gun and a knife on it, which he took meticulous care in lining up before he began speaking. *"Adam Reece reporting. Authorization code SH-36CIPZ5K9W.  An organization has infiltrated the Center's Colonization Project and are using our colonies as playgrounds for their sick desires. Bio-engineered virus targeted and killed at least half the population. Outside communication was controlled by a synthetic intelligence taken hostage. Wolfhound casualties are as such: Marianne Reece, Connor Reece, Nolan Thompson,  Mia Thompson..."*

Adam seemed to lose his composure slightly. *"...And Emily Thompson. Having failed my primary objective and a newly found secondary objective, paired with a lack of chain of command, I changed my objective to that of avenging their deaths. I have done so by hunting down and inflicting the same pain they inflicted on us."* He reached forward with a scarred hand and moved the camera to the left. Three men were tied to chairs and to call their state 'grotesque' was an understatement. Two of the three were  clearly dead, and the third looked hardly better. Two were burned from head to toe and covered in multiple knife woods, ranging from slashes to stabs, the flaying of skin and near surgical cuts. The third was gagged and burned from the waist down and was struggling with all his might to escape.

His hand briefly covered the camera and moved it back to himself. *"That's the governor, the ringleader of this group called 'The Connoiseurs'. He's a mid-level member of the group. He chooses low-level members to accompany him on a colonization project. They isolate the colony and act out their wildest, vilest dreams, but they have to submit evidence of what they've done to the higher level member governing the colony. This acts as blackmail, collateral, assurances. It's how they maintain structure in their group. These lower level members range from civilians to doctors, private security, all walks of life with all kinds of 'tastes'. The minutia of their hierarchies are in the evidence the SI has. I may have missed some of them and they've mingled into the regular populace, so don't come unprepared."* He paused and all that could be heard was the grunting and struggling of the governor off-screen.

This went on for a few moments before the man picked up the hunting knife, stood up and walked off screen. Shortly after, loud, yet still muffled screams rang out. Y'la winced at the sound that seemed to go on forever, guttural and afraid. It sounded like Adam said something offscreen before returning to his seat and stabbing the bloodied knife into the table. The sharp thud caused Y'la to flinch. *"I've completed my duties to the best of my abilities, so I shall now be resigning from my post."*  He picked up the revolver, checked the chamber and placed it to his head. Y'la kept on watching, a seed of horror growing in her stomach all the way to her throat.

Click.

There was no bang.

Adam held the gun still to his head for a moment before lowering it and checking the chamber. He moved the chamber back a notch and placed it back to his temple.

Click. 

There was no bang.

This time he opened the chamber, removed the bullet and inspected it incredulously, before breaking into a fit of laughter. The laughter went on for a long while and the seed of horror that had grown from the pit of Y'la's stomach into her throat blossomed and strangled her with fear. Eventually, Adam's laughter quickly stopped as he spoke in a resigned tone.

*"I guess I have to live, then."*

